# Nganga Ngaruiya Portfolio

## Project 1
For this project, I build a very interactive dashboard using MS excel for my former employer Chicken Baristo. I extracted sales data from their POS and went to work. The data was in bad shape, I cleaned it using the PowerQuery which linked with the main data source thus cleaning any new data I brought in. From this clean data, I created numerous PivotTables that linked to the main cleaned sheet. This allowed me to make PivotCharts that were automatically updated once new data came in. I later proceeded to create a very interactive dashboard that was used to identify a problem in the sales of grilled chicken, one of the products on the menu, this led to an investigation which helped the directors to realize that the change in marination 2 months prior was killing their top seller product. Many more wonderful discoveries were made from this dashboard. You can see me teaching how I made it step by step on my [YouTube tutorial on how to create a completely interactive excel dashboard.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oCIJqtOqkC8&list=PLjYn2orKlXao0Md4v8fdI1jtU_qiZbOSM). The technology used here were **Advanced MS Excel**

## Project 2
The client of this project was the AGED department of Egerton University. They had done some research and had gained a lot of data on their students, including names, email addresses, and phone numbers. They thus decided to database this information and I was contracted to do so. Instead of just storing it in a generic database I decided to develop this web app where they could view them, search them on multiple parameters and add new students with ease. The login system also allowed the lecturers in the department to have their own profiles which they can use individually from anywhere in the world. The user interface was extremely easy to use and was designed for anyone who is or is not computer savvy. You can see me teaching how I made it step by step on my [YouTube tutorial on how to create a Django website](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_RO3IjgcEBI&list=PLjYn2orKlXaqLw3U8RecBtz-FMckbwb1y). The technology used was **Python** and its web framework **Django**. The code itself is [here](https://github.com/NgangaNgaruiya001/Adding-PostgreSQL-as-your-database)
